STORY.md, before:

![Cosmos](https://i.im.ge/2025/01/12/z4hLTm.Your-paragraph-text.png)

## Cosmos

Cosmos is a space game that challenges players to control a planet's movement in orbit and avoid colliding into other planets. Cosmos was built for [AWS's Game Builder Challenge](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open).

## Inspiration

Cosmos was built for the [AWS Game Builder Challenge](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open) hosted by [Devpost](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open). The AWS hackathon challenges developers to  use Amazon Q Developer, a generative AI-powered assistant, to build games faster. 

I needed to build a functional, visually appealing game by the given deadline and I was eager to learn a new framework. Luckily, the [AWS Game Builder Challenge](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open) gives contestants the opportunity to use Amazon Q Developer, a powerful AI assistant, to speed up development. Because of this, I decided to build a game based on something I really love (space) using a technology I have never used, Three.js.

## What it does

The main objective of Cosmos is to use the game's mechanics to move around your orbit as many times as possible without colliding into other planets on the adjacent orbit.

### How to Play
##### **If you're playing on Desktop:**
- Use the Arrow Up and Arrow Down keys on your keyboard to control your planet's movement. 
  - Use Arrow Up to move accelerate 
  - Use Arrow Down to decelerate
  
##### **If you're playing on Mobile:**
- Click the arrow up button on the bottom left corner of the screen to accelerate
- Click the arrow down button on the bottom left corner of the screen to decelerate

##### Game Over
- You lose Cosmos if and when you collide with another planet object.
- When the game ends, press 'R' on your keyboard or click the reload icon to play again!

## How I built it

I followed [this tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhgBwJn1bQw) to learn the basics of Three.JS and get a general idea of how my planets would move in orbit. Once I had a general understanding of the framework, I prompted Amazon Q to change the game's mechanics, create a space theme, and create spherical objects to represent planets.

### Working with Q

Because I was part of GitHub Copilot's Beta Testing team in 2022, I already knew that prompts must be detailed, logical, and specific when working with a local IDE assistant of this nature.

#### Scene

I used simple inline code comments with common Three.JS terms to prompt Q into setting up the scene, camera, and renderer accordingly. 

#### UX 

I then prompted Q to create a dark background and add stars to create an outer space environment.

#### Game Mechanics

Because I did not want to simply copy and revise the tutorial I followed, I used inline comments, Amazon Q IDE Chat, and my own JavaScript knowledge to configure the game mechanics and bind user actions to keyboard keys and HTML elements. 

The code generated by Q was usually sufficient enough for a working game, but I updated variables based on my  vision for how Cosmos should work. Some examples include: planet acceleration & deceleration speed, orbit design, the scoring system, and planet radius.

#### Tech Stack & Dev Tools Used:

- Three.JS
- Amazon Q
- CSS
- HTML
- Amazon Amplify
- Node/NPM
- Git/GitHub

## Challenges I ran into

#### Early Development

In the early stages of development, I had some trouble getting Q to generate code that functioned in the way I wanted it to. Here are some examples:

##### The "Infinity Track"

During the first few attempts  

## Accomplishments that I'm proud of

## What I learned

## What's next for Cosmos

Commit message:

Write about challenges and accomplishments

STORY.md, after:

![Cosmos](https://i.im.ge/2025/01/12/z4hLTm.Your-paragraph-text.png)

## Cosmos

Cosmos is a space game that challenges players to control a planet's movement in orbit and avoid colliding into other planets. Cosmos was built for [AWS's Game Builder Challenge](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open).

## Inspiration

Cosmos was built for the [AWS Game Builder Challenge](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open) hosted by [Devpost](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open). The AWS hackathon challenges developers to  use Amazon Q Developer, a generative AI-powered assistant, to build games faster. 

I needed to build a functional, visually appealing game by the given deadline and I was eager to learn a new framework. Luckily, the [AWS Game Builder Challenge](https://awsdevchallenge.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=your-open-hackathons&ref_content=Submissions+open) gives contestants the opportunity to use Amazon Q Developer, a powerful AI assistant, to speed up development. Because of this, I decided to build a game based on something I really love (space) using a technology I have never used, Three.js.

## What it does

The main objective of Cosmos is to use the game's mechanics to move around your orbit as many times as possible without colliding into other planets on the adjacent orbit.

### How to Play
##### **If you're playing on Desktop:**
- Use the Arrow Up and Arrow Down keys on your keyboard to control your planet's movement. 
  - Use Arrow Up to move accelerate 
  - Use Arrow Down to decelerate
  
##### **If you're playing on Mobile:**
- Click the arrow up button on the bottom left corner of the screen to accelerate
- Click the arrow down button on the bottom left corner of the screen to decelerate

##### Game Over
- You lose Cosmos if and when you collide with another planet object.
- When the game ends, press 'R' on your keyboard or click the reload icon to play again!

## How I built it

I followed [this tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhgBwJn1bQw) to learn the basics of Three.JS and get a general idea of how my planets would move in orbit. Once I had a general understanding of the framework, I prompted Amazon Q to change the game's mechanics, create a space theme, and create spherical objects to represent planets.

### Working with Q

Because I was part of GitHub Copilot's Beta Testing team in 2022, I already knew that prompts must be detailed, logical, and specific when working with a local IDE assistant of this nature.

#### Scene

I used simple inline code comments with common Three.JS terms to prompt Q into setting up the scene, camera, and renderer accordingly. 

#### UX 

I then prompted Q to create a dark background and add stars to create an outer space environment.

#### Game Mechanics

Because I did not want to simply copy and revise the tutorial I followed, I used inline comments, Amazon Q IDE Chat, and my own JavaScript knowledge to configure the game mechanics and bind user actions to keyboard keys and HTML elements. 

The code generated by Q was usually sufficient enough for a working game, but I updated variables based on my  vision for how Cosmos should work. Some examples include: planet acceleration & deceleration speed, orbit design, the scoring system, and planet radius.

#### Tech Stack & Dev Tools Used:

- Three.JS
- Amazon Q
- CSS
- HTML
- Amazon Amplify
- Node/NPM
- Git/GitHub

## Challenges I ran into

##### The "Infinity Track"

Defining velocity, acceleration and player controls was easy with Q, but I ran into some challenges when prompting Q to create two adjacent & overlapping orbit tracks.

I wrote several sets of inline comments, instructing Q to create two tracks that overlap in the center. I also explained in the chat that the player planet would move on track1 and enemy planets would spawn on track 2. Despite several attempts, the AI repeatedly generated one track, with both player and enemy planets orbiting it.

In an effort to describe the shape using an example, I prompted Q with the following comment:

```// Setup two track parameters to look like an infinity symbol, so the user's challenge is to avoid colliding with the other planets (using up/down keyboard acceleration controls)```

As a result, Q generated an infinity symbol looking track, but it was positioned incorrectly and the planets were rotating on the same orbit, making collision impossible.

![Infinity Track](https://i.im.ge/2025/01/14/zBFkLX.infinity-track-q-1.gif)

#### Deceleration

Despite my code comments and chat inquiries, I couldn't seem to get Amazon Q to decelerate by simply slowing down. Instead, Q repeatedly suggested code that caused the player planet to go backwards when deceleration controls were used.



## Accomplishments that I'm proud of

I used Amazon Q to comply with the game challenge requirements and save time, but I also wanted to get familiar with Three.JS and improve my game development skills. So, when I ran into the Infinity Track challenge described above, I decided to 

## What I learned

## What's next for Cosmos
